TITLE: Attack detection and identification in cyber-physical systems

SPEAKER: Francesco Bullo
	 http://motion.me.ucsb.edu

JOINT WORK WITH: Fabio Pasqualetti and Florian Dorfler


ABSTRACT:

Cyber-physical systems integrate computation, communication, and physical
capabilities.  We propose a unified framework to analyze the resilience of
cyber-physical systems against attacks cast by an omniscient adversary. We
model cyber-physical systems as linear descriptor systems, and attacks as
exogenous unknown inputs. Despite its simplicity, our model captures
various real-world cyber-physical systems and it includes and generalizes
the most studied prototypical attacks, including stealth, false-data
injection and replay attacks. For this model, we study various attack
detection and identification procedures, and we characterize their
fundamental limitations. We provide constructive algebraic conditions to
cast undetectable and unidentifiable attacks, and graph-theoretic
conditions for the existence of undetectable and unidentifiable attacks.
Following our analysis, we propose centralized and decentralized monitors
for attack detection and identification.  Finally, we present several
illustrative examples that illustrate our findings, and show the
effectiveness of our methods also in the presence of system noise,
nonlinearities, and modeling uncertainties.



BIOSKETCH: Francesco Bullo received the Laurea degree in Electrical
Engineering from the University of Padova in 1994, and the Ph.D. degree in
Control and Dynamical Systems from the California Institute of Technology
in 1999. From 1998 to 2004, he was affiliated with the Coordinated Science
Laboratory at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. He is
currently a Professor with the Mechanical Engineering Department at the
University of California, Santa Barbara.  His students' papers were
finalists for the Best Student Paper Award at the IEEE Conference on
Decision and Control (2002, 2005, 2007), and the American Control
Conference (2005, 2006, 2010).  He is the coauthor of the book "Geometric
Control of Mechanical Systems" (Springer, 2004) and of the book
"Distributed Control of Robotic Networks" (Princeton, 2009).  His main
research interest is multi-agent networks with application to robotic
coordination, distributed computing and power networks. 
